adding throughtput numbers and tools for getting numbers (#53)
mosaicml/examples: llm/throughput/README.md

# MosaicGPT Throughput, MFU, and HFU

> Throughput, MFU, and HFU for different sized MosaicGPT models trained on MCloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughput, MFU, and HFU for different sized MosaicGPT models trained on [MosaicML Cloud](https://www.mosaicml.com/cloud).
```

> MFU and HFU are defined in https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.05198

Reviewer: Before jumping into all the MFU stuff, can we have a 'Table of Contents' or intro paragraph explaining what the different scripts here are used for? `run_all_config.py` and `parse_logs.py` only make sense in the context of MosaicML Cloud so it would be good to address that

The attention mechanism forward pass FLOPS are: `attn_flops_per_seq = n_layers * 2 * 2 * (d_model * (seq_len**2))`
```
flops_per_token = 2 * n_params
flops_per_seq = flops_per_token * seq_len
mfu* = 3 * flops_per_seq * throughput / (gpu_num * GPU_AVAILABLE_FLOPS)

attn_flops_per_seq = n_layers * 2 * 2 * (d_model * (seq_len**2))
mfu = (3 * flops_per_seq + 3 * attn_flops_per_seq) * throughput / (gpu_num * GPU_AVAILABLE_FLOPS)
```

HFU is approximated using the fact that the networks use checkpointing for activation recomputation. This effectively requires an extra forward pass through the network.
```
hfu* = 4 * flops_per_seq * throughput / (gpu_num * GPU_AVAILABLE_FLOPS)
hfu = (4 * flops_per_seq + 4 * attn_flops_per_seq) * throughput / (gpu_num * GPU_AVAILABLE_FLOPS)
```

These are approximations. Real HFU would be higher since it would include the FLOP usage of norm, act, residual, as well as account for ALL recomputation (the model uses FlashAttn which already does a recomputation in the fwd pass; in reality, the hfu attn multiplier should be 5 instaed of 3).

Below we highlight some of the configurations, but the full tables can be found in [FULL_TABLES](./FULL_TABLES.md)

> 

Reviewer: Can we add one more sentence to the README.md, something about how "the configs here are not exhaustive, if there is a setting you are interested in, please reach out to [...] or if you already have access to MosaicML Cloud, try profiling it yourself like this: [EXAMPLE COMMAND]"

> ## A100 80GB

Reviewer: The "highlights" are still quite long, do you think we should try to shorten them? Maybe like keeping the seqlen=[2048...16384] sweep but cutting down on the GPUType=[..] sweep? I'm not super opinionated here but it does feel like a lot even when looking on my laptop.

Author: cut down on a few
